---
title: PSU 907 Physical Access Controls
aliases:
  - "20241229160816"
created: 2024-12-29
modified: 2024-12-29
source: https://www.canada.ca/en/treasury-board-secretariat/services/access-information-privacy/access-information/info-source/standard-personal-information-banks.html
tags:
  - PIB
---
# PSU 907 Physical Access Controls

**Description:** This bank describes information used in support of physical security measures in the form of identification cards, employee and visitor access badges, and video surveillance recordings generated by cameras located on the perimeters of, or within institutionally operated buildings and facilities. Additionally, in support of employee and visitor access control, the records related to these subjects contain the actual access logs/registers used to issue temporary employee passes and temporary visitor passes. Personal information collected may include recorded visual images, photographs, data logs, signatures, surnames, given names, telephone numbers, access badge numbers, temporary pass control numbers and visitor company/organization information related to the issuance of temporary visitor passes.

**Note:** This personal information bank was formerly two separate personal information banks: Security Video Surveillance and Temporary Visitor Access Control Logs and Access Badges PSU 907 and Identification and Access Cards PSE 917.

**Class of Individuals:** Employees, and those on assignment or contract and visitors who require access to a government institution or any other person within proximity of video surveillance recording capabilities.

**Purpose:** The personal information is used to enhance the security of government institutions facilities and of individuals and assets present in such facilities. Video surveillance is sometimes conducted in real time or recordings can be used to investigate past occurrences, security incidents or emergency situations. Access logs/registers, access passes and any other records related to employee and visitor access control may also be used to monitor or investigate current or past security incidents. For many institutions, personal information is collected under the authority of various Acts, including the Financial Administration Act (FAA) and as required under the Policy on Government Security, Public Service Employment Act (PSEA), Criminal Code, and the Defence Production Act (DPA). For those institutions not subject to the FAA, PSEA, DPA, or the Policy on Government Security, consult the institution’s Access to Information and Privacy Coordinator to determine collection authority.

**Consistent Uses:** The information may be used or disclosed to assist security officials in the monitoring of activities and/or the issuance of access passes. Information may be used for identification purposes in support of personnel security screening. Information may be used to support compliance with other relevant Treasury Board policy instruments and policy directions. Additionally, records and recordings may record entry and exit times from facilities and may be used in the event of security-related incidents such as thefts or emergency situations. In such cases, this information may be shared with appropriate law enforcement agencies, emergency workers, appropriate staff relations officers, or investigative bodies for further investigations, charges or disciplinary actions (refer to [Security Incidents and Privacy Breaches PSU 939](https://www.canada.ca/en/treasury-board-secretariat/services/access-information-privacy/access-information/information-about-programs-information-holdings/standard-personal-information-banks.html#psu939) and [Discipline PSE 911](https://www.canada.ca/en/treasury-board-secretariat/services/access-information-privacy/access-information/information-about-programs-information-holdings/standard-personal-information-banks.html#pse911)). Video information that reveals evidence of illegal activity, employee misconduct or accidents may be disclosed to appropriate staff relations, facility owners, enforcement or investigative bodies for further investigations, charges or disciplinary actions.

**Retention and Disposal Standards:** For information about the length of time that specific types of common administrative records are maintained by a government institution, including the final disposition of those records, please contact the institution’s Access to Information and Privacy Coordinator.

**RDA Number:** 98/001

**Related Record Number:** [PRN 931](https://www.canada.ca/en/treasury-board-secretariat/services/access-information-privacy/access-information/information-about-programs-information-holdings/standard-classes-records.html#prn931)

**Bank Number:** PSU 907
